# COMPAS-Algorithm-Evaluation
## Visual and statistical evaluation of the COMPAS score.

1) Compas is a proprietary algorithm/software developed by the company Northpointe used to predict the likelihood of recidivism of criminal defendants. It uses a variety of factors, such as age and criminal history as well as responses to a questionnaire to generate a risk score. However, critics argue that the algorithm is based on biased data and disproportionately labels people of color as high-risk, leading to harsher sentencing and perpetuating systemic racism in the criminal justice system. Despite ongoing debate, Compas continues to be used in many US courts.
2) The full original dataset used by Compas is not openly available. But the non-profit organization ProPublica was able to assemble a dataset that contains information on a large number of defendants, notably the compas_score (a measure between 0 and 10, where 10 means highly likely to reoffend) and the compas_class (a binary measure derived from the compas_score using a threshold of 0.4). The score was and is used in court to make decisions about parole. Also, the data contains a binary measure two_year_recid that shows whether the individual reoffended during a period of 2 years after the initial case.
3) As part of the module 'ethical artificial intelligence' at the Kiel University of Applied Science we had the task to visualize several distributions of the data used for the compas algorithm and apply a statistical analyses to it.
